All right so now I'm going to lead you through the process of setting up X and customizing it to create
a great looking blog web site.
If you don't already have a blog or some sort of portfolio site then I'd thoroughly recommend getting
one online whether you use the x theme or not.
There's no better time to start building your online portfolio and growing your profile.
But right now so once you've purchased the theme you can download it from the force directly or you
can go to community dot dot co and to an account there.
And that's what I've done.
And I'm then going to click download x and obviously you should download whatever the latest version
is.
While we're here as well I should say that there's a really good knowledge base for x which shows you
how to set up the demo content.
The child themes were comments and a whole load of other features that come with a theme as well.
This is another big advantage of buying these games because they're so popular.
They come with a huge amount of help and guidance.
And if there's anything that you can't find in the knowledge base you can check out the forum as well.
And each purchase of the theme comes with six month support within the form.
All right.
So we've now got our extort zip folder.
How do we get that into our WordPress installation.
Or we go back to appearance and themes
and then we add a new theme.
But this time instead of searching on word presto we're going to upload a theme then we choose the file.
So that's XTO zip and install now and that will then upload the file to WordPress and install the theme
for us.
And let's activate it once again.
And here we go.
So we're now installed but we do have an extension to add cornerstone is essentially X's version of
the customize and allows us to customize the page.
But in a more powerful way and we can with the D for Wordpress customize.
So just click install plug in and that will do all the work for you.
And then we get to that's now set up for us.
So now we want to get our site looking good and it's pretty easy to start doing that with x.
We just click demo content and that will allow us to set up any of the demos that exist on the same
website.
So your usual process here is likely to be to click through a number of these demos and find the one
which is closest to the sort of site that you want to make.
We want to make a blog.
So I quite liked the look of Renu five we saw very briefly in the previous video.
You're very welcome of course to choose a different theme if you like but we'll be working with this
one.
So very straightforward to set up.
We just click we knew five and then I would generally recommend if you're starting with a new site to
import the posts and the portfolio items I should add as well that X has added some expanded demos which
you can see at the bottom of the demo page.
And the advantage of these is that they contain not just a general layout for your page but all of the
content as well.
So if you're wanting to set up for example a church web site you could use the expanded demo and you
would get all of this content set up for you immediately.
Now there aren't that many expanded demos right now but more are coming.
And if it happens that you want to make a site that looks pretty close to one of those that will definitely
make your life a lot easier.
But we'll focus on the standard demos for the moment.
So I'll just click back to renew five and then yep we're happy to have rights.
Everything that we've set up so far.
I think I'll just clear up my tabs a little bit.
And there we go.
That's done.
Let's have a look and see what our site looks like now.
And here we go.
So you can see that it already has a look and feel of that theme and hopefully you're getting the idea
with wordpress that design and content are completely separated.
So we've had three completely different looking sites here pretty much exactly the same content just
by changing the theme.
Notice also that with these themes you don't get the images included you will have to add those yourself.
All right.
So let's do a little bit of customization.
So I've just picked edit with cornerstone in there and here we go.
You can see it looks pretty similar to the Wordpress customize but it's got a lot more features.
So just like with the Customize that we can select particular sections and then customize customize
them so we can change the name of the section if we really want to.
And then this section is made up of two rows so we can edit that first section first row.
We could change
the text then
we can change the size of the text
change the color
alignments and we can specify some specific ID's classes or styles if we want to get a little bit more.
Cody and we can do the same thing with all of the elements here just by clicking on them so we could
change that text and
maybe I've got a mailing list.
I want them to sign up to see
and as before we can change the link and the type of BOTTEN sites et cetera et cetera.
The x theme has a number of icons built in as well so we can change those if we fancy to.
And again we can choose an ID class or style scrolling down.
We can change the image and obviously upload a new image if we want to.
Which we do using the standard media library within Wordpress and we can change all the other options
as well.
So I'm not going to run through everything on this page.
I'm sure you get the idea how it works but there are a couple of other cool features I'd like to share.
We can choose a template from the various options.
So if we want to add a pricing plans page for example
then we can add that and that will overwrite everything that we've got here.
And adds a nice looking pricing plans page with NFA Q At the bottom as well I should point out that
this is responsive to say it will look good on any screen size and you can see here that the menu has
changed into a drop down one because we're on a relatively narrow screen and we can insert any of these
blocks to add some standard layouts to our pages to.
So I'm just going to change that see an about page and you can see that again we've got some nicely
laid out the full content which we could get rid of anything that we didn't need and change the text
and content for anything that we did.
So it's pretty easy to add new content blocks as well within those concept blocks.
If we click on elements then we can add smaller bits of content so say we want alerts pop underneath
our core values so we're familiar with alerts now from Bootstrap X theme alerts have a slightly different
style but you get the idea we can put the title and content on again change the padding and everything
else and we can change the type from a success to an information a warning to danger as well.
And even at a closed bottom so that the user can get rid of the lead if they want the say these are
the various different elements should be reasonably familiar with most of these element types.
But again we can add them just with a simple drag and drop to al-Qaeda.
The third option along the top is a search which just allows you to click on anything on the page and
then edit it in the way that we've seen.
And the fourth option is settings which allows you to put some custom CSSA and Javascript in there if
you want to but also to change the main settings of the page say I might make that Rupp's block
and we can change various other settings if we want say as well.
Headings two paragraphs.
All right so that gives you an overview of how we add content to our site.
Once we've done say
we click the save button which will then updates everything to our live site and if we take a look we
should be able to see all of that in practice.
So if I was making this my home page I'd keep things pretty simple so I'd get rid of that.
Let's just by clicking delete
and then change the text see something more relevant and then update
the content here.
To whatever I wanted and I would recommend doing something similar if you are going to create a portfolio
page of your own to talk about what you do and what you're interested in.
And then you can just say that and you've spent therefore a very minimal amount of time setting up your
site which means you can spend a lot more time on your content which is where you should really focus
your efforts so you can see the blog already looks pretty good.
We've got a few demo blog posts in there already.
And of course if you want to edit those you do that in the standard WordPress way.
So you just go to posts and then you can edit them here.
And the nice thing about these demos is that you can use them essentially as templates.
So if you want to have a video post then you could start with that one and copy it or at least see how
it set up with the video and then edit its to change it to whatever content you want.
And the final thing to show you then is we've got a new option down the side here.
Portfolio.
So the X theme has portfolios built in.
And of course if you want to show off your web design or app development skills aport failure is a great
way to do it.
You can see we've got a portfolio here on the left in this demo and we need to add some content before
those will display.
But essentially each of these would be a picture of a Web site you've made or a photograph you've taken
or a song that you've written whatever it is that you're trying to show others that you can do really
well.
So that's pretty much it.
There's an obvious challenge from this video that is go and build a portfolio or blog Web site of your
own.
It's pretty easy.
It doesn't take that long and it's well worth having online.
Regardless of whether you want to be a web developer or an artist or an accountant online portfolio
of your own to tell the world about who you are and what you can do is an extremely valuable thing.
So go and make one.
And when you've done it let me know about it on Twitter and I'll read you to the world.
Have fun.